>> Hey, what's up, Brian?
>> Hey, good to see you.
>> Yeah, good to see you as well.
Thanks to everyone who's joining us live at a slightly different time.
And if you're re-watching the live recording,
well, it's whenever you re-watch it,
but thanks for doing it nonetheless.
>> Yeah. I had Dirty Duty yesterday, so that's what happens.
>> Yeah. That would have been interesting,
but not as interesting as Python Bytes.
>> No. They wouldn't let me record from the courthouse.
>> That is weak. We're going to live stream this. Come on now.
All right. Let's kick it off.
>> Okay.
>> Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 392,
recorded July 17th, 2024. I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> And I'm Brian Okken.
>> This episode is brought to you by Code Comments,
an original podcast from Red Hat.
So thank you to Red Hat for supporting the show.
We'll tell you more about them later.
You can follow us on Fosted On.
The links for Brian, me,
and the show are all in the show notes.
And you can also follow us on X if you wish.
I know some people have not yet made the transition.
What are you waiting for people? Come on.
And finally, before we jump into it,
we are super excited that people are signing up for the newsletter.
Check that out.
Just go to pythonbytes.fm,
click on the big newsletter button in the middle,
put your e-mail in, you'll hear about cool stuff.
You'll get the show notes, but you'll also get
announcements that we might send out and other things,
live events, who knows.
So sign up, be in the know,
and we'd love to talk to you there, and we won't share.
Brian.
>> And we were going to do a contest or something.
>> Oh, yes, we're going to do a contest.
The numbers are growing and we reached a monumental number.
I'm pulling up my list monk management here.
Oh, we are close.
We're getting quite close here.
So yeah, we're going to do some kind of contest.
Yeah, some kind of giveaways.
We'll see what that is.
>> Cool. All right.
So let's kick it off.
Let's start with something exciting,
the 2024 PSF board election and by-law election.
The election happened and the results are in already.
So it happened pretty quick.
And nobody's demanded a recount yet, so that's good.
We don't do that in the PSF.
But so new board members,
Tanya Allard, Quan Hei Bay,
and Christian Moriera-Freides, I think.
But congrats to the three new board members.
Super awesome. Should be fun for you.
One of the things in this announcement was that the, where was it?
Basically, it says, what's next?
If there's four, here it is at the bottom.
There's four seats open again next year.
So might feel early,
but if you're thinking about running for the board,
it might not be early to think about it now,
to get ready and think about what you wanted to propose and stuff.
So, and they suggest reaching out to one or two current board members
to ask them about their experience before throwing your hat in the ring.
So it actually sounds pretty interesting.
So anyway, so the three new board members, congrats.
And then also all of the PSF by-law changes passed heartily,
like with a big margin.
So let's take a look at that a little bit.
So, oh, let's look at what they are again.
So there were merging, contributing, and managing member classes.
That seems like a no-brainer.
I'm glad they're doing that.
Simplifying the voter affirmation process
by treating past voting activity as intent to continue voting.
That makes sense.
- Yeah, I like that one.
'Cause in order to vote,
you have to attest that you're interested in voting for some reason now,
which is funky, so.
- Well, also, I mean, it makes sense for counting it.
Like, if we just send it to everybody and just, what,
give them three weeks to vote.
I mean, how long do you have to wait?
I don't know, it's all right.
Now, if you voted this year,
you'll automatically be able to vote next year.
That makes sense.
And then the third one of allowing for removal of fellows
by a board vote in response to Code of Colorado Deck violations.
That was, there was a lot of controversy on the chat and stuff
and in the mailing list.
However, that third one and all of them,
so the third one passed by a huge margin.
Second one, also huge margin.
First, huge margin.
So it's, you know, smaller margin for three,
but basically still most people are for it.
And I was for it too.
And I trust our board, so I think it's a good thing.
So if you want to read more about all of these,
there's a link to all the different bylaw changes.
So you can read more about them if you want to.
- Yeah, cool.
Very cool.
Hey, I do have a quick comment here.
- Okay.
- These, the number of people who voted are in the hundreds,
like 300, 400, something like that.
There are millions of Python developers,
literally millions.
There's plenty, tens of thousands of people
who just listened to this podcast
who are in the know and interested enough.
Vote, guys and girls.
- Yeah, yeah, be part of the community by voting.
It's a good way to have your voice heard.
I also really enjoyed this year,
and I do this every year,
of actually reading about the different,
reading all the different board candidates
and what they've done.
It's kind of a neat way just to like catch up
on some people and what their contributions to Python are.
So.
- Catch a little zeitgeist.
Where's the whole community going in a sense.
- But not as much as if you listen to Python Bytes every week
'cause then it's like a rapids of zeitgeist.
You can barely stand it.
Speaking of barely standing it,
imagine if you were on Saturn doing data science.
- Oh.
- Okay, so we obviously know about Jupyter,
which is our biggest planet, clearly.
But Saturn is pretty big too,
and it's got cooler rings than Jupyter.
So, better for data science?
I don't know.
Okay, seriously, this is Saturn,
and it's a modern Jupyter desktop application for macOS.
- Cool.
- It's pretty cool.
So it's like super minimal.
It has a bit of a, not a JupyterLab.
That's too close to the real Jupyter,
but just the Jupyter notebook style,
like straightforward.
It's supposed to be real minimalist, right?
It's nice and clean.
It has a command palette,
so you can, you know, Command + K or Command + Shift + P,
whatever the hot key is, I don't know yet.
I haven't tried it.
So you just download it and you get going.
I think it might come bundled with Python,
and you don't have to set up virtual environments and stuff,
but you can connect it to so-called kernels
or basically virtual environments
that you would like there.
All right?
So, very nice.
You just download it and get started.
It has a built-in LLM,
so you can ask it LLM things like,
describe the plot above and then plot it using,
or describe the data above and plot it using lines
and scatter, and boom, it'll go and do that sort of thing.
Pretty cool.
It's very minimalist.
If, like I said, if that's your vibe,
and then this is it,
there's a command palette you can use.
I don't know what the hot key is, and again,
comes with black built-in,
so you get automatic formatting.
Just press F, apparently, and boom,
your whole notebook is formatted, which is really nice.
I feel like that's one of the things
kind of missing from notebooks,
is like a real nice,
just sort of management of code in general,
like the autocomplete is not that great.
I know you can hit, there's like,
you can press some hot keys to trigger autocomplete,
but it just doesn't happen as you type like many editors.
You can also do cool things like copy,
just go to a graph copy and just paste it straight into,
it's got a little copy button for the data tables
and for the graphs and things like that.
Yeah, so all super neat.
Check it out, and my final thought here
is download the alpha.
There's no link to GitHub,
so presumably this is not an open source thing,
although perhaps it is, I just haven't found it,
but there's no link to GitHub,
and there's no business model expressed here.
So will this be a paid product?
Is it just not yet out on GitHub?
You know what I mean?
I don't know.
So buyer beware, and by buyer,
I mean person who downloads for free.
- Yeah.
- But it looks really promising to me.
I really like the vibe here.
- Oh, okay, go up, oh, this is the rough thing.
Let's see.
- We do have a blog.
You can check it out, but it has literally one entry
that says integrating the rough language server,
which is like an engineering cool, that's fun,
but it doesn't tell you anything about it.
- Oh, okay.
- It doesn't add any information
to what I was just talking about, you know what I mean?
- Yeah, and it doesn't have the Saturn.
It has a link to an editor, one repo,
but it isn't the Saturn repo.
- We'll see, but look, if somebody makes something
that you pay money for,
that's a super nice data science app,
and it's not out of control,
I'm not saying that's a negative thing.
I'm just saying it's not clear what its status is.
- Yeah, but also if anybody that's part of this,
like Jack Hodkinson or anybody else on Saturn team,
let us know what's going on.
- Shoot us an email.
- Speaking of stuff we wanna let people know about,
I bet there's some code comments
in this Saturn code there, what do you think?
- I think probably.
- Probably.
This episode is brought to you by Code Comments,
an original podcast from Red Hat.
You know when you're working on a project
and you leave behind a small comment in the code?
Maybe you're hoping to help others learn
what isn't clear at first.
Sometimes that code comment tells a story
of a challenging journey
to the current state of the project.
Code Comments, the podcast, features technologists
who've been through tough tech transitions
and they share how their teams survived that journey.
The host, Jamie Parker, is a Red Hatter
and an experienced engineer.
In each episode, Jamie recounts the stories
of technologists from across the industry
who've been on a journey implementing new technologies.
I recently listened to an episode about DevOps
from the folks at Worldwide Technology.
The hardest challenge turned out to be getting buy-in
on the new tech stack
rather than using that tech stack directly.
It's a message that we can all relate to
and I'm sure you can take some hard-won lessons
back to your own team.
Give Code Comments a listen.
Search for Code Comments in your podcast player
or just use our link, pythonbytes.fm/code-comments.
The link is in your podcast player's show notes.
Thank you to Code Comments for supporting the show.
Indeed, indeed.
Now, back over to you.
- I wanna talk about something bad that happened on PyPI,
but it's not, it could have been worse,
but it's not, but it could have been,
but it wasn't bad.
Anyway, what happened was,
and I'm gonna link to a couple blog posts.
One of them is on the pypi.org blog
from E. Durbin.
Incident report leaked GitHub personal access token.
So what happened was,
and E just go ahead and writes out the timeline of events.
It was something that he was working on,
something called Cabotage.
And the gist of it is,
he was trying to debug something
and ran into some problems with timeouts
for GitHub access tokens for the generic ones
or the community ones or whatever.
And so he used his own personal one for a while
while he was developing it, then he switched back.
But his personal access token got saved into a PYC file
that made it to a Docker image that got published.
So this is bad because it would have given access
to a whole bunch of PyPI and core stuff, including Python.
Probably not good.
So what happened, how this was found though,
was JFrog does a regular binary scan
of a lot of packages or open source projects
that we rely on, including Python and stuff.
And they found this problem
and they notified the security team on PyPI.
And the token, the security team from PyPI
revoked the token within 17 minutes of getting notified.
This is like amazingly, blazingly fast, I think.
And JFrog even points this out,
that this is, we had done a research team,
identified it, reported to PyPI,
and it was revoked in a mere 17 minutes,
which is super cool.
Anyway, so it was revoked, it was fixed.
And then afterwards a scan was done to find out
if that access token was used for anything, and it wasn't.
So it wasn't exploited at all.
But there are some good takeaways that,
and there's in the original blog post
to just talk about a little bit more about the details
about how this showed up in the Docker file.
But the takeaways are a few of them.
It, there's three of them.
First, set aggressive expiration dates for API tokens.
So if you are gonna use an API token,
have only have it for as long as you need it
and have it, you know, consider the timeout
because if it escapes, you have to deal with that.
Also treat PYC files as if they were source code.
So, and that's, I don't, you know,
normally I don't think about that
'cause we don't publish PYC files,
but if they're in the Docker image,
it's gonna get published, right?
So the other way was, the other note was
only release builds from automated systems on,
like use a CI system with a clean source only.
So some great reminders that PYC files
are really something to be careful about also
and be very careful with access tokens.
- Yeah, pretty scary.
Pretty scary.
The TechRadar folks, TechRadar is,
thinking of the right place, I really like their writing.
They phrase it as, "A GitHub token leak
"could have put the entire Python language at risk.
"What if Python itself was malicious?"
Right, because I mean, it gave anyone
who wanted to get a hold of that right access
to the Python, CPython repo and other parts of deployment,
it's not ideal.
- Yeah.
- But it sounds like it was caught, so it's really good.
- Could have been very bad.
- Yes, another bullet dodged, another bullet dodged.
- But both posts are interesting reads.
The JFrog one also has quite a bit of good information
about how to protect from this
and some of the actions,
some of the new GitHub access tokens have a way,
they're easier to scan than they used to be able.
They're easier to find because there's a prefix
that you can scan for within binary, so that's pretty cool.
- Oh, right, right, right.
Yeah, they've changed that format.
That's good.
I was listening to Steve Gibson recently,
the security guy, and he talks about how
these things are scary, but made an analogy
to earthquakes and fault lines.
And if there's never any little tiny earthquake,
there's no release of pressure.
And eventually that comes out
and some huge terrible thing,
we've all learned a lesson,
and this is less likely to happen,
and we dodge the bullet.
So it's bad, but it also has a silver lining in that
here's one fear away is that things are gonna get out,
that at least people are running Python,
and probably others will learn from as well.
- Yeah.
- All right, I would like to go
on a bit of an extra, extra, extra.
This was not the intention.
I had some other topic, and I'm like,
and another extra, another extra.
I'm like, all right, this is out of control.
So you ready?
Extra, extra, extra, hear all about it?
- Yeah, I'm ready.
- All right, let's do it.
Number one, first extra, pretty quick here is
Python 3.13 Beta 3 has been released.
This was a couple days ago.
It's not like, why would you put the date at the bottom?
I don't know.
Anyway, I know it's at the top, June 27th.
So it's actually been a little bit of time,
but there's no other beta,
and people should be checking out.
This is the third of four beta releases.
So this is basically the last chance
to make potential changes before it's
completely just down to bug fixes, right?
- Okay, yeah.
- Okay, so the Python folks strongly encourage
maintainers of third-party Python packages
to test with 3.13 during the beta phase
and report any found issues to the Python bug tracker ASAP.
It will be feature complete while the release
is planned to be feature complete
entering the beta phase as possible to get modified
or changed based on how serious any problems might be.
Anyway, 3.13 Beta 3, awesome.
Minibar Ice, I told you guys about this
when there was the bartender.
I was such a fan of bartender, recommend it everywhere.
And then bartender went a little funky.
It's not that it was sold to someone else that's a problem,
it's that it was sold and the fact that it was sold
was obscured, that's the problem, right?
Talked about that previously.
So I switched to Ice and Ice was like,
it kind of does the thing that bartender used to,
but it's get hides menu,
like it doesn't seem to show everything reliably.
And anyway, it was really kind of janky,
but this thing I think got a ton of attention
since all that happened.
It's got a lot of contributions.
So new release, a lot of bug fixes,
primarily like a cool little dropdown
that shows all your stuff in a second.
If you click on it, it'll show you a little second window.
Really nice.
So I can more strongly recommend open source free Ice
than before, links in the show notes.
- You got a lot of stuff up there, man.
- That's why I need this thing.
It's out of control, man.
I'm telling you, it's a problem.
All right, last time you mentioned the article,
I will pile drive you if you say AI again,
and it resonated strongly with me.
All right.
- Yeah.
- So the Primagen guy did a one hour prime reacts
to the I will pile drive you article and it is gold.
So check out this if you just want to like sit back
and listen to it in the background.
This is a really good video.
It's worth your hour of time.
So check that out.
- I listened to an interview.
I don't have the link right off the bat,
but I listened to a podcast episode
of somebody interviewing the guy also.
- Okay.
Interesting.
- I'll drop a link in the show notes.
- Yeah, he does a good stream sort of thing.
All right, next up, we talked about Polyfill,
I think a couple of episodes ago.
Right, Polyfill IO and all that.
So Polyfill was, Polyfill.io used to be run
by some financial publication.
I can't remember exactly.
I don't want to misattribute them.
And then they were sold.
They were like a CDN for JavaScript stuff.
And they were sold to a Chinese company,
which in itself is not necessarily bad.
But then the Chinese company started sending malicious code
instead of regular JSON polyfills to its users.
But in a super select way, like,
oh, are you doing an authentication
at this third party identity as a service thing?
Well, maybe now you're getting the bad JavaScript
or whatever, you know?
So really, really tricky stuff.
And the Polyfill.io domain was not unregistered.
It was basically blocked by its registrar,
which I think was name cheap.
But there are four other domains that it turns out
that they're also using as CDNs.
I don't know what happened to them.
Maybe they've been dealt with by now, but maybe not.
But also what if Polyfill.io just re-registers
somewhere else eventually?
Is this possible?
I don't actually know.
So I posted a thing on,
posted on in on Twitter saying,
hey, if you have some kind of fancy DNS,
you might want to put blocks in for all these domains.
So staticfile.org, staticfile.net, bootcss.com,
bootcdn.net, and polyfill.io.
Those are all blocked in my next DNS, which is awesome,
which is like a pie hole,
but you get access to it anywhere,
not just while you're at your house,
which is better, I think.
- Cool.
- Yeah, so if you care about that stuff,
this is one way to say you can now surf the web.
And even if you go to a vulnerable website,
it won't load these things.
So that's always good.
- All right, nice.
- Next up, we have the JetBrains
Developer Ecosystem Survey 2024.
The survey is now open.
It's pretty intense, takes like 25 minutes,
but you can, if you want to complete it,
contribute to sort of, you know,
what editor is popular, what frameworks are you using,
do you like databases, et cetera.
For this, you may win a MacBook Pro 16,
an NVIDIA GeForce, some phones, and so on and so on,
a bunch of stuff you can win, potentially.
Coding the Castle in October,
October 5 to 12th in Tuscany,
still has some seats open,
so check that out at hawkpython.fm/castle.
And if you're interested,
a week of half Python learning, half excursions in Tuscany.
So check that out as well.
And that concludes my extra, extra, extra,
hear all about it.
- So do you need somebody to help,
like, you know, carry your equipment?
- Yeah, sure, I mean, I'm gonna bring a MacBook Air,
so that is pretty heavy.
Would you like to help?
- Yeah, yeah, if you want to pay for my trip,
I would definitely help you out.
- Yeah, yeah, awesome, I appreciate that.
(laughing)
- No, it looks like fun.
I'm excited to hear about that when you get back.
- Yeah, I am too.
I think I'll give it to you in a couple days
in motorcycle riding,
there's like some off-road enduro tours you can do there,
like, it's pretty close, if I can link those together.
Then I'll need help carrying, like,
all the motorcycle gear that will, like,
mount that way up. - Are you gonna try
to check your motorcycle as a--
- No, you can rent motorcycles there.
You gotta check it.
(laughing)
- I'll just ship it ahead, it'll be there waiting for me.
- Yeah.
- Awesome, how about your extras, got anything?
- Yeah, so I wanted to, let's see.
I'm working on a new pytest course.
So already on Talk Python training,
there is the Getting Started with pytest course.
It is three and a half hours long,
so it's pretty quick,
covers a lot of the basics of pytest.
I also have the complete pytest course
over on courses.pythontest.com.
This little, I mean, the 162 lessons might freak people out,
but a lot of the lessons,
it's basically the entire Python testing with pytest book,
and a lot of the videos are chopped up
into, like, three minutes, four minutes, so--
- As they should be.
- Yeah, so, but I do notice that there's a gap.
So the new course I'm working on
is a really introduction to pytest,
introduction to testing concepts.
And this is, and I really want it to be something
that somebody could really watch in half a day easy,
or even just a little bit.
And I'm targeting, I'm hoping to be under an hour
to introduce a lot of these great concepts.
And this would be intended for people, for the entire team.
Like, my idea would be everybody on the team,
including the manager, would take this little mini course,
and then you'd have a couple experts,
couple people that wanna be the pytest experts
take the complete course or something,
or the one on Tucked Python Training,
to be more in depth.
And so that, I think there's a gap there
for the little, the quick intro, so I'm working on that.
- Awesome, that'll be fun.
I agree with you, by the way.
I do think there's probably a good gap there as well.
- Yeah, also, and I'm kinda wanting that for my internal,
for my own company of, like,
I don't think I can tell people
to go watch an eight hour video.
I don't remember if it's eight hours or not,
but it's, well, also, okay,
I wanna have people not freak out too much.
It's split into three parts, and you really,
the intent of the entire book wasn't to read everything.
It's to read the first part,
and then use the rest of it as resources as necessary.
So, same with the course.
Okay, I've got other stuff going on too.
I've got a couple of these other couple podcasts,
Python People, I thought it was a great idea,
but I just haven't had time.
So, it hasn't been updated since May.
I'm just gonna officially say
it's kind of indefinitely on hold.
I don't know what's gonna happen with it,
but I'm not working on it.
- Okay.
- And Python Test, it was testing code,
and it's still like this,
still the little icon is still testing code.
And now it's Python Test for 14 episodes, 14 out of 221.
I am gonna flip flop and probably switch back
to testing code, because there's a series I wanna do
about test-driven development, and it's really,
it's not, it's language agnostic,
so it doesn't really make sense
to have it be under the Python banner.
And I probably, I can't,
I wanna say I promise to not switch it again,
but, you know, who knows?
It's whatever.
So, that's, those are my extras.
I'll probably get back to record,
I'm still roughing out the ideas for the series,
it'll probably come out in August or September, so.
- Excellent.
- Those are my extras. - Well, I look forward to it.
Very cool.
- But that wasn't very funny, though.
- No, it was not, it was not.
Good thing about podcasts, if people subscribe to them,
and a year later, you're like,
all right, I'm ready for more Python people,
it'll just start showing up in their players again.
- Yeah, and I'll talk, you know, follow Python Bytes.
We're not gonna stop Python Bytes anytime.
- Well, there's no plan on it, so.
- There's definitely no plan on it.
All right, let's get something a little bit funny.
Now, I know there's been a lot of talk about AI,
although I'm frightened of being pile-derived.
I don't know if people know this wrestling term,
but it's disturbing.
Anyway, I'm a little worried about it,
but this is not helping you code with AI.
This is just straight-up editor help
that I also consider super important.
It's entitled, "I Need My IntelliSense."
Are you a fan of Scooby-Doo, Brian?
- Yeah.
- Did you watch Scooby-Doo, the cartoon, growing up?
So here's, what's the woman's name with reddish hair?
- Did I?
I still catch up.
I still keep up on all the Scooby-Doos.
- Awesome.
So she has glasses, and she lost them, obviously,
like the picture.
I've lost my glasses in this scary house or whatever,
but the caption is, "My IntelliSense!
I can't code without my IntelliSense!"
Oh, I relate.
(both laughing)
That's pretty funny, yeah.
- Yeah, anyway, I thought that would resonate
with some folks out there.
- Would I have to actually look up what the parameters are?
That's just barbaric.
- It's totally barbaric, and it's a segment of your mind
that doesn't need to be filled with those details.
You just type and let it flow.
- One of the things, though, that I,
all the pop-ups that happen to help you out,
like it's great, except for if you,
I wish there was a toggle
that I could just turn everything off or on,
because when I'm developing, I like those on,
but when I'm recording a course or something,
I don't want all those popping up all the time.
So do you turn them off for your courses and stuff?
- No, I have them on.
I try to show people, like, look, here's your options.
This is the one you pick out of the list.
So yeah, I leave them on, yeah.
- Okay, good.
I don't want to lose my glasses.
- All right, well, I'll try that.
- Indeed, all right.
I think there's also ways you can just set
the aggressiveness of it, which I think
it sounds like something you might want,
like in a serious way.
So you can set it so if you just press a dot,
boom, like the list comes up,
or you can set it so there's some other key,
like control dot or something you've got to choose,
which you wouldn't normally hit in the course of typing
to trigger that kind of stuff.
So look into that.
- Yeah, I think there's a delay too, you can say.
Like, if I'm just gonna start typing,
don't pop that stuff up.
- Yeah, yeah, indeed.
- Anyway, cool.
- All right, well, thanks for another fun show.
Thanks, everyone, for listening.
- Thank you.
- Yeah, bye.
- Bye.